docs/engineering/app/configuring/p2p_sync.mdx, before:

# P2P Sync

OpenSRP supports device-to-device syncing through an additional library. To add the P2P library use ```p2p-lib = "XXX-SNAPSHOT``` in your `libs.version.toml` file. After this sync your application to update the added library.

## Enabling P2P sync configuration

To enable P2P sync we need to make changes to enable viewing P2P UI elements and configure what to sync over P2P.

### Navigation configurations

```json
{
    "id": "p2p_sync",
    "visible": true,
    "display": "Transfer Data",
    "menuIconConfig": {
        "type": "local",
        "reference": "ic_p2p"
    },
    "actions": [
        {
            "trigger": "ON_CLICK",
            "workflow": "DEVICE_TO_DEVICE_SYNC",
            "id": "navigateToP2PScreen"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Config properties of P2P sync

|Property | Description | Required | Default |
|--|--|:--:|:--:|
id | uniquieId of your p2p_sync block | yes |  |
visible | Boolean to show whether this is to be shown | yes | `apps` |
display | Title text that should be shown on the device | yes | |
menuIconConfig | The icon to show. This can be configured through ICON configuration. [See here](https://docs.opensrp.io/engineering/android-app/configuring/config-types/widget#how-to-use-button-with-icon-and-copy-ability) | No  |  |
actions |  Action to be performed when once clicks on the display above. See actions parameters under questionnaire | yes | |

:::info
DEVICE_TO_DEVICE_SYNC application workflow can be triggered via configurable actions as indicated in the sample navigation configuration above.
:::

#### Resources to sync

You also need to define which resources to be synced. This configuration should be added as part of [Application configuration](https://docs.opensrp.io/engineering/android-app/configuring/config-types/application)

``` json
"deviceToDeviceSync": {
    "resourcesToSync": [
        "Group",
        "Patient",
        "CarePlan",
        "Task",
        "Encounter",
        "Observation",
        "Condition",
        "Questionnaire",
        "QuestionnaireResponse",
        "RelatedPerson",
        "Flag",
        "Immunization"
    ]
}
```
This can be simplified by a sample workflow show on the image below.
![P2P_SYNC](/img/p2p.png)

Commit message:

Pld docs adjustment (#3540)
* sync typo

* correct heading title

* update header definition for p2p

* upgrade packages

(cherry picked from commit c3166d344e7ab1afa4d3d253147cb1cf534a4ad6)

docs/engineering/app/configuring/p2p_sync.mdx, after:

# P2P Sync

OpenSRP supports device-to-device syncing through an additional library. To add the P2P library use ```p2p-lib = "XXX-SNAPSHOT``` in your `libs.version.toml` file. After this sync your application to update the added library.

## Enabling P2P sync configuration

To enable P2P sync we need to make changes to enable viewing P2P UI elements and configure what to sync over P2P.

### Example P2P configuration

```json
{
    "id": "p2p_sync",
    "visible": true,
    "display": "Transfer Data",
    "menuIconConfig": {
        "type": "local",
        "reference": "ic_p2p"
    },
    "actions": [
        {
            "trigger": "ON_CLICK",
            "workflow": "DEVICE_TO_DEVICE_SYNC",
            "id": "navigateToP2PScreen"
        }
    ]
}
```

### Config properties of P2P sync

|Property | Description | Required | Default |
|--|--|:--:|:--:|
id | uniquieId of your p2p_sync block | yes |  |
visible | Boolean to show whether this is to be shown | yes | `apps` |
display | Title text that should be shown on the device | yes | |
menuIconConfig | The icon to show. This can be configured through ICON configuration. [See here](https://docs.opensrp.io/engineering/android-app/configuring/config-types/widget#how-to-use-button-with-icon-and-copy-ability) | No  |  |
actions |  Action to be performed when once clicks on the display above. See actions parameters under questionnaire | yes | |

:::info
DEVICE_TO_DEVICE_SYNC application workflow can be triggered via configurable actions as indicated in the sample navigation configuration above.
:::

### Resources to sync

You also need to define which resources to be synced. This configuration should be added as part of [Application configuration](https://docs.opensrp.io/engineering/android-app/configuring/config-types/application)

``` json
"deviceToDeviceSync": {
    "resourcesToSync": [
        "Group",
        "Patient",
        "CarePlan",
        "Task",
        "Encounter",
        "Observation",
        "Condition",
        "Questionnaire",
        "QuestionnaireResponse",
        "RelatedPerson",
        "Flag",
        "Immunization"
    ]
}
```

### Example P2P sync workflow

The workflow below shows an example of syncronzing data from device to device.
![P2P_SYNC](/img/p2p.png)
