docs/engineering/app/configuring/forms/forms.mdx, before:

---
title: Forms
---

# Form configuration

Forms in FHIR and OpenSRP2 are defined through the [Questionnaire resource](https://www.hl7.org/FHIR/questionnaire.html).
This configuration is used to configure a Questionnaire.

:::tip
Use this configuration in other configs like profile and register.
:::

FHIR Core reads user data from label fields, date pickers, radiobutton, checkboxes  e.t.c through forms called Questionnaires
We can group these into 3 categories.fields

## A general questionnaire config

``` json
{
  "id":"recordAsSick",
  "title": "Record as Sick",
  "titleColor": "@{patientTextColor}",
  "visible": "@{isChildUnder2months}",
  "enabled": "@{patientActive}",
  "actions": [
    {
      "trigger": "ON_CLICK",
      "workflow": "LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE",
      "questionnaire": {
        "id": "questionnaire-uuid",
        "title": "Record sick child",
        "resourceIdentifier": "@{patientId}"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

The above is a simple question that can be used to record a sick patient.

## Config properties

|Property | Description | Required | Default |
|--|--|:--:|:--:|
id | Questionnaire Unique String | no             | null         |
title | Display text shown as on the button | yes |              |
titleColor | Display text color             |     |              |
visible    | A string to show if the questionnaire button should be shown | no | true |
enabled    | A string to show if the questionnaire button should be clickable | no | true |
actions    | A list of actions that you would like to be executed | yes if you are using a questionnaire |  |
actions (trigger) | Defines when you want to launch the questions | yes |        |
actions(workflow) | Import to execute logic related to the questionnaire | yes |  |
linkIds    | Contains configurations for linkIds for fields in the Questionnaires that are used to control application workflow and content; ranging from read only fields to fields used to capure location/barcode details. Each linkId is identified by a type (`READ_ONLY`, `LOCATION`, `BARCODE`, `IDENTIFIER`) | no |  |
type | The item type, e.g. `date`, `choice` or `group`. A `group` type allows you to create a section within a questionnaire that controls and treats the items within the `group` as a single item. This is suitable for block sections that can be toggled based on condition or answer expression logic | no | null
repeats | Boolean that controls whether an item is repeated or not, used to control a single item or group item that creates a repeated group | no | false

### Questionnaire config actions

``` json
"questionnaire": {
  "id": "questionnaire-uuid",
  "title": "Record sick child",
  "resourceIdentifier": "@{patientId}",
  "linkIds": [
    {
      "linkId": "122d7ffe-3137-46b5-a28d-5c1a335c4899",
      "type": "READ_ONLY",
    },
    {
      "linkId": "145fb5a7-66b0-455d-9cff-a0d0d5994caf",
      "type": "LOCATION",
    }
  ]
}
```

## Questionnaire block config properties

| Property | Description | Required | Default |
|--|--|:--:|:--:|
id   | Unique uuid that determines what questionnaire i.e form to launch | yes | |
title | label text of the questionnaire | yes | |
resourceIdentifier | FHIR resource to pull/add or update | yes | |


The questionnaire id inside the questionnaire block


## Sample questionnaire with a planDefinition

``` json
{
  "title": "Register Pregnancy",
  "titleColor": "@{patientTextColor}",
  "visible": "@{canRegisterPregnancy}",
  "enabled": "@{patientActive}",
  "actions": [
    {
      "trigger": "ON_CLICK",
      "workflow": "LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE",
      "questionnaire": {
        "id": "questionnaire-uuid",
        "title": "Record to ANC",
        "resourceIdentifier": "@{patientId}",
        "planDefinitions": [
          "planDefinition-uuid"
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

The above questionnaire JSON config adds planDefinition in an array. For each item in the array, we pull related plan Definitions.
These are used when generating other tasks, CarePlans and related resources.See https://fhircore.smartregister.org/writing-fhir/plan-definiton

## Extra config properties

| Property                                   | Description                                                                                        | Required | Default |
|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------:|:-------:|
| planDefinitions                            | A list of questionnaire planDefinition uuids                                                       |    no    |  null   |
| cqlInputResources                          | A list of CQL Library `id`'s. The referenced Libraries are executed after questionnaire submission |    no    |  null   |
| barcodeLinkId                              | The link ID for barcode widget used in the Questionnaire                                           |    no    |  null   |
| saveQuestionnaireResponse                  | Indicate whether to save QuestionnaireResponse or not                                              |   yes    |  true   |
| onSubmitActions                            | Configurations for actions invoked post Questionnaire submission                                   |    no    |  null   |
| extractedResourceUniquePropertyExpressions | Configurations for unique properties used to identify resources during Questionnaire edit          |    no    |  null   |
| uniqueIdAssignment                         | Configuration for unique identifier assignment                                                      |    no    |  null   |

## Dynamic data pass between Profiles and Questionnaires

For you to pass data between profiles and questionnaires you can make use of **action config params** which are executed when **LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE** is invoked.

Data extraction happens during rules execution and is persisted in `computedValuesMap` which is later used to interpolate values annotated with `@value`. See [working with rules] (https://docs.opensrp.io/engineering/android-app/configuring/working-with-rules).

For example, in the `underlying_conditions` questionnaire you would like to show or hide the Cancer option based on whether the patient has cancer or not. The solution would be to pass `has-cancer` BOOLEAN from `adult_profile_config` to `underlying_conditions`.

Assuming that the `LAUNCH_QUESTIONAIRE` `onClick` function of `adult_profile_config` takes you to `underlying_conditions` questionnaire screen, below is a practical example of how the data would be passed.

### Cancer LAUNCH_QUESTIONAIRE
#### Sample JSON
1. Write rules to extract the data you need.
``` json
"rules":[
      {
      "name": "hasCancer",
      "condition": "true",
      "priority": 1,
      "actions": [
        "data.put('hasCancer', service.evaluateToBoolean(availableConditions, \"Condition.code.coding.code = '363346000' and Condition.clinicalStatus.coding.code = 'active'\", false))"]
    },
  ]
```

2. add your params at **LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE** section of adult_profile_config.json
#### Sample JSON
``` json
    { "trigger": "ON_CLICK",
          "workflow": "LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE",
          "questionnaire": {
            "id": "54497",
            "title": "Record Comorbidity",
            "resourceIdentifier": "@{patientId}",
            "params": [
              {
                "key": "familyLogicalId",
                "value": "@{familyLogicalId}",
                "paramType": "UPDATE_DATE_ON_EDIT"
              }
            ]
          },
          "params": [
            {
              "paramType": "PREPOPULATE",
              "linkId": "has-cancer",
              "dataType": "BOOLEAN",
              "key": "hasCancer",
              "value": "@{hasCancer}"
            }],
}
```

On the `underlying_conditions` questionnaire side, we will then call the `has-cancer` linkId that was declared in the `adult_profile_config`, as shown in the example below.
``` json
{
    "extension": [ {
      "url": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/questionnaire-hidden",
      "valueBoolean": true
    } ],
    "linkId": "has-cancer",
    "definition": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/Resource#Resource.id",
    "type": "boolean"
  }, {
    "linkId": "e4b02bd1-faa3-415e-84e7-378b8cc84d92",
    "text": "Cancer",
    "type": "choice",
    "enableWhen": [ {
      "question": "9f320854-7677-4ecb-9886-d323b7161a2e",
      "operator": "=",
      "answerCoding": {
        "system": "urn:uuid:5fddcabd-9ae1-412a-e591-8fb6089a4f26",
        "code": "yes"
      }
    }, {
      "question": "has-cancer",
      "operator": "=",
      "answerBoolean": false
    } ],
    "enableBehavior": "all",
    "required": false,
    "answerOption": [ {
      "valueCoding": {
        "id": "727795dd-2870-4bc2-e057-4aa8518405dd",
        "system": "urn:uuid:5fddcabd-9ae1-412a-e591-8fb6089a4f26",
        "code": "yes",
        "display": "Yes"
      }
    }, {
      "valueCoding": {
        "id": "944752c4-b116-4bca-8bc0-7e2889219565",
        "system": "urn:uuid:5fddcabd-9ae1-412a-e591-8fb6089a4f26",
        "code": "no",
        "display": "No"
      }
    } ]
  }
```


## Sample questionnaire with an event workflow

Suppose you wanted to close above mentioned generated resources. For example, when moving a patient from ANC to PNC you would like to close exsiting Tasks and Careplans generated for ANC, the below configs shows how to do this.


## Sample questionnaire with an event workflow
``` json
{
  "title": "Pregnancy Outcome",
  "titleColor": "@{patientTextColor}",
  "visible": "@{isPregnant}",
  "enabled": "@{patientActive}",
  "actions": [
   {
     "trigger": "ON_CLICK",
     "workflow": "LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE",
     "questionnaire": {
       "id": "questionnaire-uuid",
       "title": "Pregnancy outcome",
       "resourceIdentifier": "@{patientId}",
       "planDefinitions": [
         "planDefinitions-uuid"
       ],
       "eventWorkflows": [
         {
           "eventType": "RESOURCE_CLOSURE",
           "triggerConditions": [
             {
               "eventResourceId": "carePlanToBeClosed",
               "matchAll": false,
               "conditionalFhirPathExpressions": [
                 "condition-to-check"
               ]
             }
           ],
           "eventResources": [
             {
               "id": "carePlanToBeClosed",
               "resource": "CarePlan",
               "configRules": [
                 {
                   "name": "patientId",
                   "condition": "true",
                   "actions": [
                     "data.put('patientId', fhirPath.extractValue(Patient, 'Patient.id'))"
                   ]
                 }
               ],
               "dataQueries": [
                 {
                   "paramName": "instantiates-canonical",
                   "filterCriteria": [
                     {
                       "dataType": "REFERENCE",
                       "value": "PlanDefinition/planDefinition-uuid-used-to-generate-the-resources"
                     }
                   ]
                 },
                 {
                   "paramName": "subject",
                   "filterCriteria": [
                     {
                       "dataType": "REFERENCE",
                       "computedRule": "patientId"
                     }
                   ]
                 }
               ],
               "relatedResources": [
                 {
                   "resource": "Task",
                   "searchParameter": "based-on"
                 }
               ]
             }
           ]
         }
       ]
     },
     "params": [
       {
         "paramType": "PREPOPULATE",
         "linkId": "linkId-uuid",
         "dataType": "STRING",
         "key": "key",
         "value": "@{value-before-interpolation}"
       }
     ]
   }
  ]
}
```

## Extra eventWorkflows properties

|Property | Description | Required | Default |
|--|--|:--:|:--:|
eventType |The intention of the eventWorkflow. E.g close resources | yes | RESOURCE_CLOSURE is supported for now |
triggerConditions | This defines an array of condition for to be met for the event to run | no | null |
eventResourceId |  uniqueId of resource id to be closed |  yes   |               |
eventResources | A list of resources to close(Type of ResourceConfig) |    yes           |     |      |

## Hiding characters in a questionnaire

Sensitive information typed on a questionnaire can be hidden through adding a linkId extension. A sample linkId with password-widget extension looks like

``` json
{
  "extension": [
    {
      "url": "https://github.com/google/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/questionnaire-itemControl",
      "valueString": "password-widget"
    },
    {
      "url": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/minLength",
      "valueInteger": 16
    },
    {
      "url": "http://ehelse.no/fhir/StructureDefinition/validationtext",
      "valueString": "NIK number should be of 16 digits"
    },
    {
      "url": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/regex",
      "valueString": "^\\+?(?:[()\\h-]*\\d[()\\h-]*){16}$"
    },
    {
      "url": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/questionnaire-displayCategory",
      "valueCodeableConcept": {
        "coding": [
          {
            "system": "http://hl7.org/fhir/questionnaire-display-category",
            "code": "instructions"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "linkId": "82a80049-8d2d-4008-81aa-55356b9d6628",
  "text": "NIK number",
  "_text": {
    "extension": [
      {
        "url": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/translation",
        "extension": [
          {
            "url": "lang",
            "valueCode": "id"
          },
          {
            "url": "content",
            "valueString": "Nomor Induk Kependudukan (NIK)"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  "type": "string",
  "required": false,
  "maxLength": 16
}
```

Below is the specific extension for this. The extension is validated in this class [PasswordViewHolderFactory](https://github.com/opensrp/fhircore/blob/main/android/quest/src/main/java/org/smartregister/fhircore/quest/ui/sdc/PasswordViewHolderFactory.kt)

``` json
  {
    "url": "https://github.com/google/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/questionnaire-itemControl",
    "valueString": "password-widget"
  }
```

## QR Code Support

QR Code widget can be set up for a Questionnaire by adding `qr_code-widget` extension, with url `https://github.com/opensrp/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/qr-code-widget`, to a QuestionnaireItem

```json
    {
      "url": "https://github.com/opensrp/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/qr-code-widget",
      "extension": []
    }
```
The QR Code widget extension can be configured to take another extension with url `set-only-readonly` that takes in a value `Boolean`, which when set to `true`, the QR code widget only allows set QR code once and thereafter the field would behave as `readOnly`

```json
    {
      "url": "https://github.com/opensrp/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/qr-code-widget",
      "extension": [
        {
          "url": "set-only-readonly",
          "valueBoolean": true
        }
      ]
    }
```
Normal behaviour of the `qr_code-widget` extension or if the `set-only-readonly` extension has a value of `false`, would be to allow setting QR code multiple times whereby subsequent QR codes would replace current

The QR code widget supports adding an arbitrary number of QR codes, implemented by showing `+Add QR Code` button. This can be configured by setting QuestionnaireItem with the `qr_code-widget` extension to `"repeats": true`

```json
      "repeats": true,
      "extension": [
        {
          "url": "https://github.com/opensrp/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/qr-code-widget",
          "extension": [
            {
              "url": "set-only-readonly",
              "valueBoolean": true
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
```
The extension's implementation can be found [here](https://github.com/opensrp/fhircore/blob/main/android/quest/src/main/java/org/smartregister/fhircore/quest/ui/sdc/qrCode/EditTextQrCodeViewHolderFactory.kt)

## Excluding questionnaire fields from prepopulation

Use the `linkIds` property to provide linkIds for the Questionnaire fields that should not be pre-field with data during editing or when opening the questionnaire in a read only format. 
The `LinkIdType` required for the exclusion to work is `PREPOPULATION_EXCLUSION`. Nested fields can also be excluded from pre-population of forms.

Example:

```json
"linkIds": [
  {
    "linkId": "ad29c7bd-8041-427f-8e63-b066afe5b438-009",
    "type": "PREPOPULATION_EXCLUSION"
  }
]
```

Commit message:

Add configurable confirmation dialog on form submission (#3619)
* Add feature

* spotless

* Add notes to CHANGELOG.md

* Add doc

* Fix post merge conflict error

* spotless

(cherry picked from commit aef0fdc9743d7022400849d2b6a696a5064328cd)

docs/engineering/app/configuring/forms/forms.mdx, after:

---
title: Forms
---

# Form configuration

Forms in FHIR and OpenSRP2 are defined through the [Questionnaire resource](https://www.hl7.org/FHIR/questionnaire.html).
This configuration is used to configure a Questionnaire.

:::tip
Use this configuration in other configs like profile and register.
:::

FHIR Core reads user data from label fields, date pickers, radiobutton, checkboxes  e.t.c through forms called Questionnaires
We can group these into 3 categories.fields

## A general questionnaire config

``` json
{
  "id":"recordAsSick",
  "title": "Record as Sick",
  "titleColor": "@{patientTextColor}",
  "visible": "@{isChildUnder2months}",
  "enabled": "@{patientActive}",
  "actions": [
    {
      "trigger": "ON_CLICK",
      "workflow": "LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE",
      "questionnaire": {
        "id": "questionnaire-uuid",
        "title": "Record sick child",
        "resourceIdentifier": "@{patientId}"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

The above is a simple question that can be used to record a sick patient.

## Config properties

|Property | Description | Required | Default |
|--|--|:--:|:--:|
id | Questionnaire Unique String | no             | null         |
title | Display text shown as on the button | yes |              |
titleColor | Display text color             |     |              |
visible    | A string to show if the questionnaire button should be shown | no | true |
enabled    | A string to show if the questionnaire button should be clickable | no | true |
actions    | A list of actions that you would like to be executed | yes if you are using a questionnaire |  |
actions (trigger) | Defines when you want to launch the questions | yes |        |
actions(workflow) | Import to execute logic related to the questionnaire | yes |  |
linkIds    | Contains configurations for linkIds for fields in the Questionnaires that are used to control application workflow and content; ranging from read only fields to fields used to capure location/barcode details. Each linkId is identified by a type (`READ_ONLY`, `LOCATION`, `BARCODE`, `IDENTIFIER`) | no |  |
type | The item type, e.g. `date`, `choice` or `group`. A `group` type allows you to create a section within a questionnaire that controls and treats the items within the `group` as a single item. This is suitable for block sections that can be toggled based on condition or answer expression logic | no | null
repeats | Boolean that controls whether an item is repeated or not, used to control a single item or group item that creates a repeated group | no | false

### Questionnaire config actions

``` json
"questionnaire": {
  "id": "questionnaire-uuid",
  "title": "Record sick child",
  "resourceIdentifier": "@{patientId}",
  "linkIds": [
    {
      "linkId": "122d7ffe-3137-46b5-a28d-5c1a335c4899",
      "type": "READ_ONLY",
    },
    {
      "linkId": "145fb5a7-66b0-455d-9cff-a0d0d5994caf",
      "type": "LOCATION",
    }
  ]
}
```

## Questionnaire block config properties

| Property | Description | Required | Default |
|--|--|:--:|:--:|
id   | Unique uuid that determines what questionnaire i.e form to launch | yes | |
title | label text of the questionnaire | yes | |
resourceIdentifier | FHIR resource to pull/add or update | yes | |


The questionnaire id inside the questionnaire block


## Sample questionnaire with a planDefinition

``` json
{
  "title": "Register Pregnancy",
  "titleColor": "@{patientTextColor}",
  "visible": "@{canRegisterPregnancy}",
  "enabled": "@{patientActive}",
  "actions": [
    {
      "trigger": "ON_CLICK",
      "workflow": "LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE",
      "questionnaire": {
        "id": "questionnaire-uuid",
        "title": "Record to ANC",
        "resourceIdentifier": "@{patientId}",
        "planDefinitions": [
          "planDefinition-uuid"
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

The above questionnaire JSON config adds planDefinition in an array. For each item in the array, we pull related plan Definitions.
These are used when generating other tasks, CarePlans and related resources.See https://fhircore.smartregister.org/writing-fhir/plan-definiton

## Extra config properties

| Property                                   | Description                                                                                        | Required | Default |
|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------:|:-------:|
| planDefinitions                            | A list of questionnaire planDefinition uuids                                                       |    no    |  null   |
| cqlInputResources                          | A list of CQL Library `id`'s. The referenced Libraries are executed after questionnaire submission |    no    |  null   |
| barcodeLinkId                              | The link ID for barcode widget used in the Questionnaire                                           |    no    |  null   |
| saveQuestionnaireResponse                  | Indicate whether to save QuestionnaireResponse or not                                              |   yes    |  true   |
| onSubmitActions                            | Configurations for actions invoked post Questionnaire submission                                   |    no    |  null   |
| extractedResourceUniquePropertyExpressions | Configurations for unique properties used to identify resources during Questionnaire edit          |    no    |  null   |
| uniqueIdAssignment                         | Configuration for unique identifier assignment                                                      |    no    |  null   |
| showSubmitAnywayButton                     | When a form submission detects a validation error, the app will display a validation error dialog that prevents the user from submitting the form. Enabling this property will show a button in the validation error dialog. When pressed, the form will be submitted regardless of the validation error. |    no    |  false   |
| showSubmissionConfirmationDialog           | Display a submission confirmation dialog once the submit button is pressed                         |    no    |  false   |

## Dynamic data pass between Profiles and Questionnaires

For you to pass data between profiles and questionnaires you can make use of **action config params** which are executed when **LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE** is invoked.

Data extraction happens during rules execution and is persisted in `computedValuesMap` which is later used to interpolate values annotated with `@value`. See [working with rules] (https://docs.opensrp.io/engineering/android-app/configuring/working-with-rules).

For example, in the `underlying_conditions` questionnaire you would like to show or hide the Cancer option based on whether the patient has cancer or not. The solution would be to pass `has-cancer` BOOLEAN from `adult_profile_config` to `underlying_conditions`.

Assuming that the `LAUNCH_QUESTIONAIRE` `onClick` function of `adult_profile_config` takes you to `underlying_conditions` questionnaire screen, below is a practical example of how the data would be passed.

### Cancer LAUNCH_QUESTIONAIRE
#### Sample JSON
1. Write rules to extract the data you need.
``` json
"rules":[
      {
      "name": "hasCancer",
      "condition": "true",
      "priority": 1,
      "actions": [
        "data.put('hasCancer', service.evaluateToBoolean(availableConditions, \"Condition.code.coding.code = '363346000' and Condition.clinicalStatus.coding.code = 'active'\", false))"]
    },
  ]
```

2. add your params at **LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE** section of adult_profile_config.json
#### Sample JSON
``` json
    { "trigger": "ON_CLICK",
          "workflow": "LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE",
          "questionnaire": {
            "id": "54497",
            "title": "Record Comorbidity",
            "resourceIdentifier": "@{patientId}",
            "params": [
              {
                "key": "familyLogicalId",
                "value": "@{familyLogicalId}",
                "paramType": "UPDATE_DATE_ON_EDIT"
              }
            ]
          },
          "params": [
            {
              "paramType": "PREPOPULATE",
              "linkId": "has-cancer",
              "dataType": "BOOLEAN",
              "key": "hasCancer",
              "value": "@{hasCancer}"
            }],
}
```

On the `underlying_conditions` questionnaire side, we will then call the `has-cancer` linkId that was declared in the `adult_profile_config`, as shown in the example below.
``` json
{
    "extension": [ {
      "url": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/questionnaire-hidden",
      "valueBoolean": true
    } ],
    "linkId": "has-cancer",
    "definition": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/Resource#Resource.id",
    "type": "boolean"
  }, {
    "linkId": "e4b02bd1-faa3-415e-84e7-378b8cc84d92",
    "text": "Cancer",
    "type": "choice",
    "enableWhen": [ {
      "question": "9f320854-7677-4ecb-9886-d323b7161a2e",
      "operator": "=",
      "answerCoding": {
        "system": "urn:uuid:5fddcabd-9ae1-412a-e591-8fb6089a4f26",
        "code": "yes"
      }
    }, {
      "question": "has-cancer",
      "operator": "=",
      "answerBoolean": false
    } ],
    "enableBehavior": "all",
    "required": false,
    "answerOption": [ {
      "valueCoding": {
        "id": "727795dd-2870-4bc2-e057-4aa8518405dd",
        "system": "urn:uuid:5fddcabd-9ae1-412a-e591-8fb6089a4f26",
        "code": "yes",
        "display": "Yes"
      }
    }, {
      "valueCoding": {
        "id": "944752c4-b116-4bca-8bc0-7e2889219565",
        "system": "urn:uuid:5fddcabd-9ae1-412a-e591-8fb6089a4f26",
        "code": "no",
        "display": "No"
      }
    } ]
  }
```


## Sample questionnaire with an event workflow

Suppose you wanted to close above mentioned generated resources. For example, when moving a patient from ANC to PNC you would like to close exsiting Tasks and Careplans generated for ANC, the below configs shows how to do this.


## Sample questionnaire with an event workflow
``` json
{
  "title": "Pregnancy Outcome",
  "titleColor": "@{patientTextColor}",
  "visible": "@{isPregnant}",
  "enabled": "@{patientActive}",
  "actions": [
   {
     "trigger": "ON_CLICK",
     "workflow": "LAUNCH_QUESTIONNAIRE",
     "questionnaire": {
       "id": "questionnaire-uuid",
       "title": "Pregnancy outcome",
       "resourceIdentifier": "@{patientId}",
       "planDefinitions": [
         "planDefinitions-uuid"
       ],
       "eventWorkflows": [
         {
           "eventType": "RESOURCE_CLOSURE",
           "triggerConditions": [
             {
               "eventResourceId": "carePlanToBeClosed",
               "matchAll": false,
               "conditionalFhirPathExpressions": [
                 "condition-to-check"
               ]
             }
           ],
           "eventResources": [
             {
               "id": "carePlanToBeClosed",
               "resource": "CarePlan",
               "configRules": [
                 {
                   "name": "patientId",
                   "condition": "true",
                   "actions": [
                     "data.put('patientId', fhirPath.extractValue(Patient, 'Patient.id'))"
                   ]
                 }
               ],
               "dataQueries": [
                 {
                   "paramName": "instantiates-canonical",
                   "filterCriteria": [
                     {
                       "dataType": "REFERENCE",
                       "value": "PlanDefinition/planDefinition-uuid-used-to-generate-the-resources"
                     }
                   ]
                 },
                 {
                   "paramName": "subject",
                   "filterCriteria": [
                     {
                       "dataType": "REFERENCE",
                       "computedRule": "patientId"
                     }
                   ]
                 }
               ],
               "relatedResources": [
                 {
                   "resource": "Task",
                   "searchParameter": "based-on"
                 }
               ]
             }
           ]
         }
       ]
     },
     "params": [
       {
         "paramType": "PREPOPULATE",
         "linkId": "linkId-uuid",
         "dataType": "STRING",
         "key": "key",
         "value": "@{value-before-interpolation}"
       }
     ]
   }
  ]
}
```

## Extra eventWorkflows properties

|Property | Description | Required | Default |
|--|--|:--:|:--:|
eventType |The intention of the eventWorkflow. E.g close resources | yes | RESOURCE_CLOSURE is supported for now |
triggerConditions | This defines an array of condition for to be met for the event to run | no | null |
eventResourceId |  uniqueId of resource id to be closed |  yes   |               |
eventResources | A list of resources to close(Type of ResourceConfig) |    yes           |     |      |

## Hiding characters in a questionnaire

Sensitive information typed on a questionnaire can be hidden through adding a linkId extension. A sample linkId with password-widget extension looks like

``` json
{
  "extension": [
    {
      "url": "https://github.com/google/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/questionnaire-itemControl",
      "valueString": "password-widget"
    },
    {
      "url": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/minLength",
      "valueInteger": 16
    },
    {
      "url": "http://ehelse.no/fhir/StructureDefinition/validationtext",
      "valueString": "NIK number should be of 16 digits"
    },
    {
      "url": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/regex",
      "valueString": "^\\+?(?:[()\\h-]*\\d[()\\h-]*){16}$"
    },
    {
      "url": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/questionnaire-displayCategory",
      "valueCodeableConcept": {
        "coding": [
          {
            "system": "http://hl7.org/fhir/questionnaire-display-category",
            "code": "instructions"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ],
  "linkId": "82a80049-8d2d-4008-81aa-55356b9d6628",
  "text": "NIK number",
  "_text": {
    "extension": [
      {
        "url": "http://hl7.org/fhir/StructureDefinition/translation",
        "extension": [
          {
            "url": "lang",
            "valueCode": "id"
          },
          {
            "url": "content",
            "valueString": "Nomor Induk Kependudukan (NIK)"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
  "type": "string",
  "required": false,
  "maxLength": 16
}
```

Below is the specific extension for this. The extension is validated in this class [PasswordViewHolderFactory](https://github.com/opensrp/fhircore/blob/main/android/quest/src/main/java/org/smartregister/fhircore/quest/ui/sdc/PasswordViewHolderFactory.kt)

``` json
  {
    "url": "https://github.com/google/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/questionnaire-itemControl",
    "valueString": "password-widget"
  }
```

## QR Code Support

QR Code widget can be set up for a Questionnaire by adding `qr_code-widget` extension, with url `https://github.com/opensrp/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/qr-code-widget`, to a QuestionnaireItem

```json
    {
      "url": "https://github.com/opensrp/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/qr-code-widget",
      "extension": []
    }
```
The QR Code widget extension can be configured to take another extension with url `set-only-readonly` that takes in a value `Boolean`, which when set to `true`, the QR code widget only allows set QR code once and thereafter the field would behave as `readOnly`

```json
    {
      "url": "https://github.com/opensrp/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/qr-code-widget",
      "extension": [
        {
          "url": "set-only-readonly",
          "valueBoolean": true
        }
      ]
    }
```
Normal behaviour of the `qr_code-widget` extension or if the `set-only-readonly` extension has a value of `false`, would be to allow setting QR code multiple times whereby subsequent QR codes would replace current

The QR code widget supports adding an arbitrary number of QR codes, implemented by showing `+Add QR Code` button. This can be configured by setting QuestionnaireItem with the `qr_code-widget` extension to `"repeats": true`

```json
      "repeats": true,
      "extension": [
        {
          "url": "https://github.com/opensrp/android-fhir/StructureDefinition/qr-code-widget",
          "extension": [
            {
              "url": "set-only-readonly",
              "valueBoolean": true
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
```
The extension's implementation can be found [here](https://github.com/opensrp/fhircore/blob/main/android/quest/src/main/java/org/smartregister/fhircore/quest/ui/sdc/qrCode/EditTextQrCodeViewHolderFactory.kt)

## Excluding questionnaire fields from prepopulation

Use the `linkIds` property to provide linkIds for the Questionnaire fields that should not be pre-field with data during editing or when opening the questionnaire in a read only format. 
The `LinkIdType` required for the exclusion to work is `PREPOPULATION_EXCLUSION`. Nested fields can also be excluded from pre-population of forms.

Example:

```json
"linkIds": [
  {
    "linkId": "ad29c7bd-8041-427f-8e63-b066afe5b438-009",
    "type": "PREPOPULATION_EXCLUSION"
  }
]
```
